---
title: 'Large #2 - “Stacking UP”: 3D Parametric Design and Slicing for Laser Cutting '
date: 2024-10-20
---

# Description

This Assignment has 3 tasks and and 2 Extra credits:
-Task 1: Parametric 3D Designs
-Task 2: Creating a 3D-to-2D Slicer
-Task 3: Exporting and Fabricating 2 Designs
-EC Part 1: Supporting Slicing in Other Directions
-EC Part 2: Multi-directional Slicing with Slot Joints (Advanced)

A single grasshopper file with all parts can be found here [? link code] . 

# 1. Task 1: Parametric 3D Designs
# 2. Task 2: Creating a 3D-to-2D Slicer
To slice a given design, the object's length is divided by the material thickness to find the number of layers needed (n). 
Then n equally spaced xy planes are generated such that the object is divided into n layers and each plane cuts through the middle of one layer. 
The intersection curves of the the planes with the object are moved to the base xy plane, and are spaced out along the x axis with an offset equal to the x-width of the object's bounding box. 
The number sequence used to generate the planes is also used to label them (with engraveable geometry) so the lyers are easily stackable. The number label is placed at the centeroid of each curve, which may not work with shapes of external centroid 
bellow is an image of the object with resulting layers, as will as a grasshopper screenshot. 
[? grasshpper screenshot] 
[? grasshopper
# 3. Task 3: Exporting and Fabricating 2 Designs
# 4. EXTRA CREDIT 1 - Supporting Slicing in Other Directions 
Imagine we have a slicing box that slices what is inside it vertically (along the Z axis). To slide an object along an axis A one can rotate the object and place in the slicer box such that the objects A axis is alligned with the box's z axis. 
So, for this task I simply wrote a rotation script that takes an object and an axis and rotates it accordingly. 

# 4. EXTRA CREDIT - Multi-directional Slicing with Slot Joints (Advanced):
